Refresh of the monitor mode description. (#277)
kubewarden/docs: docs/operator-manual/monitor-mode.md

---
sidebar_label: "Monitor mode"
title: "Monitor mode"
description: The Kubewarden monitor mode and how to activate it.
keywords: [kubernetes, kubewarden, monitor mode]
---

> After you deploy a policy on the cluster it starts accepting, rejecting or mutating requests.

Reviewer: I think we should  reword the explanation. I find it would be better to state something like:

When defining a policy, you can choose between two modes, specified in its spec.mode` (see https://docs.kubewarden.io/operator-manual/CRDs#admissionpolicyspec).
By default, the policy is deployed in mode `protect`, where it will accept, reject, or mutate request.

One can elect to deploy a policy in `monitor` mode. In `monitor` mode:

1. (cue to the numbered list below)

Author: Thanks.

There is a `monitor` mode so you can deploy a policy to a cluster without it immediately accepting, rejecting or mutating requests.

The `monitor` mode is a way to deploy policies to the cluster so that:

1. The policy accepts all requests, as if the policy wasn't installed.
1. The `policy-server` traces the policy normally.
Details are included in the trace on whether the request would have been rejected,
or if a mutation would have been proposed by the policy.
1. The `policy-server` metrics are updated normally, with the mode included in the metric baggage.
Therefore, it's easy to filter policies by mode, and focus on the ones deployed via `monitor` mode.

The `mode` is an attribute included in the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and `AdmissionPolicy` resources.
There are two values that the `mode` attribute can assume: `monitor` and `protect`.
The `mode` defaults to `protect` if omitted.

To create a policy in `monitor mode` you need include the `mode` as part of the specification of the resource.
For example, as highlighted, in this `ClusterAdmissionPolicy`:

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: psp-capabilities
spec:

> // highlight-next-line

Reviewer: I don't know how to do that properly. At the end, I always end up adding a comment on the exact line that I want to highlight, for example `mode: monitor # ← `

Author: The // highlight-next-line is an instruction to docusaurus to render the next line highlighted. You can see the effect in the preview. (different shades of grey)

keywords: [kubernetes, kubewarden, monitor mode]
---

When defining a policy,
you can choose between two modes,
specified in its [`spec.mode`](CRDs#admissionpolicyspec).

> By default, the policy is deployed in `modeprotect`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the policy is deployed in `protect` mode,
```

    - NET_ADMIN
```

## Changing policy mode

It's worth noting that you can update certain attributes on policies

> that are already deployed.

Reviewer: Maybe this phrase could be removed altogether.

Author: Thanks, done.

For security purposes, a user with `UPDATE` permissions on policy resources can make the policy more restrictive.
This means that you can change the `mode` of an existing `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` or `AdmissionPolicy` from `monitor` to `protect`.

However, you can't change the `mode` of an existing `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` or `AdmissionPolicy` from `protect` to `monitor`.

> Changing to `monitor` mode would 'switch off' the policy and so a security issue, until restored to `protect` mode.

Reviewer: I think this phrase could be dropped, as I don't really understand it. I think it is fine stating that we only allow for policy changes into more restrictive mode as in line 58.

Author: Ok, I think I have that. See what you think in the revised text.
